Java Classic RPG Framework Game Logics

Main Elements

   1. Single Player - aimed to be played as single player, but networked MP game can be added later
   2. Party based - up to N characters of the party (default intention is 6)
   3. Turn based world dynamism
   4. Turn based interaction in combat/social negotiation
   5. Attribute system
   6. Skill oriented (strongly) - even climbing and swimming is a skill to learn. Skills are tuned directly by using them and in schools and leveling too.
   7. Profession oriented (strongly) - a selected profession counts much in the way of individual development
   8. Leveling - strongly important, based on experience
   9. Experience system - experience points are calculated on the complexity of things done to overcome a given situation, not by static XP values.
  10. Group and Individual AI - animals and bigger populations are evolving, roaming and acting in groups while important single person NPCs are also present
  11. Climatic parts - climate conditions, the flora and possible fauna are depending on these zones of the world.
  12. Flora generation / Ecology (fauna) generation depending on the climate parts
  13. Classic keyboard handling with four direction turning and movement in a 3D world. Look around in 45 degrees as a bonus.
  14. Static tool created world areas (special dungeons, plot related places)  plus generated areas (Geography, Water, Economy [cities, villages])
  15. Parameterized world and ecology generation for new games mixed with predefined 'modules' placed by generation algorithms
  16. ...


Fantasy Setting

Combat, social, physical and magical skills are the channel which through all actors of the game represent themselves. Players and AI beings can have professions which boost some areas of skills when learning. Professions can have requirements like Gender, Race and Attributes.

Attributes:

Strength, Speed, Concentration, Constitution, Piety, Psyche, Charisma, Karma

Professions of the player:

Alchemist
Bard
Crusader - a fighter with celestial destiny
Demonist
Enlightened - a fighter using internal powers and meditation
Jester - a talkative chatty person who can deal with people with a few right words
Lobbist - the witty politician
Mage
Monk
Negotiator - the diplomatic trader of fates
Priest
Psionic - mentalist
Ranger - the great survivor of the wilderness
Shadow
Swindler - observe his hands and words well, he/she will cheat you!
Thief
Warrior
Wise - the hopefully enough reason and experience is behind him/her
Witch - female only
Witch Master - male only

Game Rules

Party vs. Entity logic

Behavior Choice: while moving around every turn entities can decide what Interception Skills they want to use (member by member, group by group) which modifies heavily what they intercept in the living and physical world and how they are intercepted. E.g. a hiding skill use means lighter chance to be spotted, a tracking skill use means higher chance to spot hiding/escaping entities.

Interception Phase: this is the phase where an entity comes in ecology turn and upon perception of a list of entities decides which of the entities it wants to encounter. After decision the Encounter Phase comes.

Encounter Phase: If an entity meets a group of entities first comes the Encounter phase where all of the groups can set up their behavior towards the other groups before going into an actual battle or social rivalry turn based act.
In the Encounter phase all of the entities can delegate one of its members or groups to use one specified skill on a bunch of encountered entities. The skill usages take place until the situation comes to a stage where a turn based act must take place. Such situations are:

   1. Combat intention arises -> combat begins
   2. Social intention arises -> social rivalry begins


These happen only when all entities have decided/agreed/been forced to go into a turn act phase, or those that doesn't want that has left/escaped the encounter.

Turn Act phase: These situations need a more intense interaction involving all of the members of entities. If a turn based act is going on each turn the relation between the entity groups are recalculated so friendly entities can become neutral or hostile, or the opposite. All the members of the entities can choose one skill to use in the turn on any other of the encountered entities. After all the entities have decided the turn begins and based on initiative all members do their skill if it is still intelligent at the point where they come. Turn Act phase ends when the combat intention / social intention is over - entities left or decided/agreed/been forced to give up the intention.
If a social rivalry becomes too hostile it can change into a combat turn act phase, the most hostile form of phases.

Entity vs. Entity logic

This logic is much more simplified than player involved situation to keep the game speed fluent.

AI rules
What and how AI will/can do.

Player point of view
What player can see and do.

Party Behavior Window
Interception Window
Encounter Window

Skill System

Skill Groups:combat, social, physical,magical
These are the groups of skills. Skills...
Skill has skill level determining level of knowing the skill and learning Skill Act Forms are depending on skill level requirements.

Skill Act Form: Skills have skill act forms which can be selected in Encounter and Turn Act phase. Spells of a Magical skill are Skill Act Forms (Summon Demon skill act form in Demonology).
